.TH "3dplot" 1
.SH NAME
3dplot - Interactive and Non-Interactive Plotting program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 3dplot [<options>] [-m] <file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
3dplot is a portable graphing program using OpenGL to render the graphs.
Either a data file is given or a file containing a list of frames to render.

Primarilly a non-interactive program although if called without -o or -O then 3dplot runs in 
interactive mode allowing real time control over some of the parameters.

Please see the FILE_SPECS file for details on the structure of the datafiles. 
.TP
.B \-v
Enable debug messages.
.TP
.B \-V
Ouput version and quit.
.TP
.B \-C <red>,<green>,<blue>
Specify the colour used to render the graph.
Values should be between 0 and 255.
.TP
.B \-s <width>,<height>
Set size of window/render, in pixels.
.TP
.B \-g <red1>,<blue1>,<green1>,<red2>,<blue2>,<green2>
Use gradient, height map, fill from colour <red1>,<blue1>,<green1> to colour <red2>,<blue2>,<green2>.
Values should be between 0 and 255.
.TP
.B \-f
Use flat shading, this might improve rendering speed on slow machines.
.TP
.B \-w
Render wireframe model.
.TP
.B \-o <file>
Ouput to <file>. Extension of file determines filetype.
Many filetypes supported, see ImageMagick library for full list.
.TP
.B \-O <basedir>
Used with \-m
Render movie frames in <basedir>.
Without this 3dplot will render to screen as fast as possible.
.TP
.B \-m <framelist>
Render all datafiles listed in <framelist> as an animation/movie.
.TP
.B \-l <x>,<y>,<z>
Place a light at position <x>,<y>,<z> pointing towards origin.
.TP
.B \-a <x1>,<x2>,<y1>,<y2>,<z1>,<z2>
Define axis lengths. X-axis from <x1> to <x2> etc...
.TP
.B \-t <x>,<y>,<z>,<x0>,<y0>,<z0>,<xup>,<yup>,<zup>
Place camera at <x>,<y>,<z>. Point towards <x0>,<y0>,<z0>.
<xup>,<yup>,<zup> defines the vector orientation of the camera.
.SH "CONTROLS"
Arrow keys move camera around the graph.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
To render the movie, in the <basedir> after running 3dplot.

$ ffmpeg -i frame%d.png output.mpg

will stream the frames together into a movie.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See the readme files and examples in $<PREFIX>/share/doc/3dplot-0.1
.SH BUGS
See BUGS and ROADMAP files in $<PREFIX>/share/doc/3dplot-0.1
